SE Development Models (#32)
Vaibhavpratapsingh22/Courses: 4-software-engineering/2-development-models.md

Waterfall model was used significantly in the development of software till the year 2000. Even after the Agile manifesto was published in 2001, Waterfall model continued to be used by many organization till the last decade.

These days most project follow Agile Methodology
which will be studying in the next chapter .

### Advantages
1. It is a linear model as output of one phase is used as the input of the second phase
2. It is simple one due to the rigidity of the model – each phase has specific deliverables and a review process 
3. Easy to explain to the user 
4. Waterfall model works well for smaller projects where requirements are clearly defined and very well understood

### Disadvantages
1. It is difficult to define all requirements at the beginning of a project 
2. Cycle time too long as we have to work on all the phases and ia change comes in a last step we have to start from the beginning 
3. We cannot go in backward direction while SDLC performs 
5. If there is any mistake or any error in any phase then we cannot make good software 

## Summary

> In this chapter we learned about  Software Development Process Models and there different phases through which we build a software . After this we have a detailed explanation of waterfall model with the help of diagram . Then we have waterfall model application , advantages , disadvantages .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this chapter, we learned about Software Development Process Models and different phases through which we build software. After this, we had a detailed explanation of the waterfall model with the help of a diagram . Finally, we closed with waterfall model applications, advantages, and disadvantages.
```

> In the next chapter we will learn about Agile Methods .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next chapter, we will learn about Agile Methods.
```

# Development Models

Like humans when take birth they pass through certain stages like adolescence to mature than to old age . Similarly from the time of inception to the time of implementation & maintainance the software undergoes several phases . 

The Systems Development Life Cycle (SDLC) gives structure to the challenges of transitioning from the beginning to the end of your project without forgetting a step.

A number of different SDLC methodologies are used today to guide professionals through their project-based work.

## Phases in Software development models

> ![phases](https://ncube-digest.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/08/SDLC1.jpg)

Reviewer: Image is not loading on my system

Author: I am changing the image :)

### 6. Deployment or Delivery
* In the deployment phase, the application is made available to users. Many companies prefer to automate the deployment phase. This can be as simple as a payment portal and download link on the company website. It could also be downloading an application on a smartphone.

* Deployment can also be complex. Upgrading a company-wide database to a newly-developed application is one example. Because there are several other systems used by the database, integrating the upgrade can take more time and effort.

### 7. Operations and Maintenance
* At this point, the development cycle is almost finished. The application is done and being used in the field. The Operation and Maintenance phase is still important, though. In this phase, users discover bugs that weren’t found during testing. These errors need to be resolved, which can spawn new development cycles.

## Waterfall Model

> The waterfall model was introduced by Winston Royce in 1970 . In waterfall model all development activities are divided into various phases . The fases are organized in linear order. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The waterfall model was introduced by Winston Royce in 1970. In the waterfall model, all development activities are divided into various phases. The phases are organized in linear order. 
```

Therefore each phase begins only when the previous phase has finished . Each phase has well-defined starting and ending points . The output of one phase are used as the input of the second phase that's why it s also called **linear sequential model** .

Various phases of waterfall model are performed one after the other and fall like water falling from the sky that's why it is known as **Waterfall Model** .

A waterfall model has following phases as shown :

![waterfall](https://www.scnsoft.com/blog-pictures/custom-software-development/1-waterfall-.png)

> ### Applictions of Waterfall Model 

Reviewer: You have explained the phases of waterfall model under the label Applications. 
Elements explanation is important - keep that here but Applications is - where is waterfall model used.

3. **Design**: This stage largely covers technical design requirements, such as programming language, data layers, services, etc. A design specification will typically be created that outlines how exactly the business logic covered in analysis will be technically implemented.
4. **Implementation**: The actual source code is finally written in this fourth stage, implementing all models, business logic, and service integrations that were specified in the prior stages.
5. **Testing**: During this stage, QA, beta testers, and all other testers systematically discover and report issues within the application that need to be resolved. It is not uncommon for this phase to cause a “necessary repeat” of the previous coding phase, in order for revealed bugs to be properly squashed.
6. **Maintainance** : Once the system passes all the tests , it is deliveredd to the customer . Any modification made to the system after initial delivery are usually attributed to this phase . 
This phase involves creating computer - compatible files , training the staff , installing hardware and telecommunication network before the system is up and running . 

> ### Advantages

Reviewer: Maybe something more relatable to the software industry. These ones are pretty straight-forward. 
for eg - It is simple one - how and why and why is it an advantage?

1. It is a linear model
2. It is simple one
3. Easy to explain to the user
4. Stages and activities are well - defined

> 5. Widely used

Reviewer: Its not widely used anymore. It was popular till late 90's and then Agile methods kicked-in

### Disadvantages

> 1. It is difficult to define all requirements at the beginning of a project .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. It is difficult to define all requirements at the beginning of a project.
```

> 2. Cycle time too long .

Reviewer: None of these are sentences, therefore all full-stops can be ommitted

3. Disallows changes .
4. We cannot go in backward direction while SDLC performs .
5. If there is any mistake or any error in any phase then we cannot make good software .

> 

Reviewer: Summary is not here again. If i read the document - it suddenly ends.
